# Coroutine

## What we will learn

1. mutex  ( `#include<mutex>` )
1. lock_guard  ( `#include<mutex>` )
1. unique_lock  ( `#include<mutex>` )
1. condition_variable   ( `#include <condition_variable>` )


## mutex

mutex can `lock()` and `unlock()` ; 
When many threads call the same function, the thread which gets the mutex lock can execute the function but others which do not get will sleep until the lock unlocked.

## class lock_guard

When lock_guard constrctor() called, the mutex will automatically lock up.
When lock_guard ~constrctor() called, the mutex will automatically unlock.
But you cannot lock and unlock manually.

```cpp
mutex lock;
void foo(){
    lock_guard<mutex> _lock_guard(lock);
}
```

## class unique_lock

It is same as lock_guard, but you can lock and unlock manually.

## class condition_variable

Usually we use two functions.

### wait

wait function has two overloadings.
**【1】:**
`void wait(unique_lock<mutex>& __lock);`
**【2】:**
`template<typename _Predicate>`
`void wait(unique_lock<mutex>& __lock, _Predicate __p);`

**IMPORTANT CONTENT BELOW**
When we call wait【1】，current thread will sleep at once.
Meanwhile, unlock the mutex，in order to block other threads at the same code.
When we call wait【2】，_Predicate will be called first.
Parameter _Predicate can be a lambda or a function returning a bool value.
If it returns true，current thread will not sleep, otherwise sleep.
<br>
When condition_variable is notified.
wait【2】will execute _Predicate again, start to run or keep asleep according to the value _Predicate returns.
However, wait【1】will start to run immediately.

### notify

1. notify_one(): just notify one thread randomly.
1. notify_all(): all blocked threads will be notified.

## Example

Please go to **appdev/thread/线程池**
