# What is classification?

Classification has a threshold to classify two or more types.

## The formula we use:

Sigmoid Function === Logistic Function
g(z) = 1 / (1+e^-x)

## What can Sigmoid function do?

Because of the range of (0, 1), it can be regarded as Probability.
Usually, if it is bigger than 0.5, it ouputs 1(positive class)
Well, 0(negative class) when it is less than 0.5. 
Negative Probability = 1 - Positive Probability

## For classification

Classification is different to regression.
For Regression, we use Y to fit to a function.
For Classification, we use Y to figure out parameters.
The true Y is 0 or 1.(The identifier of classification)

## Decision Boundary

We can use different Functions(Linear function, Polynomial function) to generate different decision boundaries.

## Why dont use Linear Regression to classify

```c
^y
|              /               
|             /   111111111      /     111111
|            /                /  
|           /              /     
|          /            /       
|         /          /           
|        /        /          
|       /      /  
|      /    /
|     /  /
|000 //             
|---------------------------------------------------------->x
```

## The theory of Logistic Regression

First, we know the graph of Logistic Function.
Because the Domain of Logistic function is (-inf, inf)
So we use Linear Function to be the z for Logistic Function.
What we should do is to give y(0 or 1), then accroding to the data, 
adjust the parameters, until y_pred is what we set.
**In short, we give out the y_real(0 or 1), machine adjusts Linear Regression parameters(it can be other Regression Functions) and input the regression result into Logisitic Function to fit to y_real(0 or 1).**
因此逻辑回归的思路是，先拟合决策边界(不局限于线性，还可以是多项式)，再建立这个边界与分类的概率联系，从而得到了二分类情况下的概率。

## Loss Function

**Loss function shows the difference between y_pred and y_real.** 
In Logistic Regression, we cannot use Least Square Method.
Because $Loss(x)=(g(0.2x^3-0.5x^2) -y_real)^2$ has more than one minimun points.
So we will use:
$log(g(z))$: when g(z) = 1, log(g(z)) = 0.
Formula above means loss of positive class.
$log(1-g(z))$: when g(z) = 0, log(g(z)) = 0.
Formula above means loss of negative class.
