# Convolutional Neural Network

## Connotation

1. Break up an image into many parts.
1. For new images, CNN is to find the similiar parts.

## Convolution/Filter

Refer to https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FmpDIaiMIeA

1. To break up image into many parts(matrixes)
1. Scan a new image to figure out similiarity of each parts(matrixes). Matching is 1, not matching is 0.
1. Get the mean of each parts, and store the result at the centre. The result is the probability of the scanning matrix.

## Normalization

To make nagetive values 0

## Pooling

1. Pick a window size(usually 2 or 3)
1. Pick a stride(usually 2)
1. Walk your window on your filtered images.
1. Choose the maximal value.

## Deep Stacking

You can execute many times of Filtering, Normalization and Pooling.

Each time, the result matrix gets smaller which is better to feed to the DNN to learn and predict.

## Rethink of CNN

Before, we used DNN to learn images. And we met problems that the POSITION is not sure, the SCALE is changing, the ROTATION is various.

Let us see how CNN solves these problems.
1. Break an image into many parts: to solve ROTATION.
1. Use Pooling: to overcome SCALE and POSTION.

## Coding

### For Images:

Usually an images has three dimensions: width, height, channel

### For Kernels:

We use :n, width, height, channel
n: means how many layers a kernel is.
channel: should be equal to the channel of image's
Why does a kernel have many channels? That is because we want to get different features on each channels of an image.
For the result, just sum them up.

### Important Thinkings

1. Sharing parameters: