# Android Development Summary

## Android Java & UI System

On android, Java vm and UI are packed in different package.
They are totally two systems.
Before, we have talked about the UI and JVM. We call it MFC.(I have explained before.)

## Gerneric Steps to develop.

1. Create a empty project.
2. Use `fragment` to draw windows.
3. Handle navigations.
4. Draw other layouts.
5. Call Android APIs.

## Java Thinking

Java is different to other languages. For me who is used to C family, to adapt JAVA needs a bit time.
Some very very important thinkings here.
1. In java, all methods(what we call functions) are wrapped in a class. Thus, if you want to call a medthod, you have to do it in a class. For example,  `setContentView()` in fact, it is `this.setContentView`.
2. Java makes OOP perfect. A java class it may extends many many classes as `AppCompatActivity`. The enxtending relation is quite comlicated. But we have to get it clear, else we cannot write codes.
3. While using automatical Languages like java, golang and so on, I was so confused to inputting parameters. It feels like the Memory is not handled by myself. For these languages, classes can be anything, like configurations, a series of methods like `FragmentManager`. So what? When inputting a class paramter, the complier inputs Address whichi points to the space of class.
4. `Get` and `Set`, OOP tells everthing is Object. When programming, we need Objects to operate them. In Java, everhing is stored in Classes. So java uees Get and Set to get object stored in classs(maybe parents.)
