# Packages

## android namespace

Package `android` is released with the version of android OS.
But `androidx` is released with the version of library, irrelevant to OS version.

`androidx` namespace includes `jetpack` library.
As other dependencies, libraries in androidx are not included defaultly.

WARNING: android library is no longer updated.

## What does android support?

[Reference]new(https://developer.android.google.cn/reference/packages?hl=zh-cn)
1. android.graphic: Provides low level graphics tools such as canvases, color filters, points, and rectangles that let you handle drawing to the screen directly.
1. android.hardware: Provides support for hardware features, such as the camera and other sensors.
    1. display
    1. camera2
    1. fingerprint
    1. input
    1. usb: Provides support to communicate with USB hardware peripherals that are connected to Android-powered devices.
1. account
1. media: Provides classes that manage various media interfaces in audio and video.
1. animation
1. content: Contains classes for accessing and publishing data on a device.
1. bluetooth
1. database
1. gesture: Provides classes to create, recognize, load and save gestures.
1. icu
1. mtp: using the PTP (Picture Transfer Protocol) subset of the MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) specification.
1. net: Classes that help with network access, beyond the normal java.net.* APIs.
1. nfc
1. opengl
1. os: 	Provides basic operating system services, message passing, and inter-process communication on the device.
1. speech
1. webkit: Provides tools for browsing the web.
1. telecom: The Android Telecom framework is responsible for managing calls on an Android device.
1. transition

1. java.nio: Defines buffers, which are containers for data, and provides an overview of the other NIO packages.
1. java.sql
1. 

## How to use Androidx

If you want to use androidx, you should set the compiler sdk version at least Android 9.0(API 28). And in gradle.properties, set `android.useAndroidX = true` and `android.enableJetifier = true` .

## What does androidx support?

1. fragment
1. navigation
1. appcompat
    1. app: Something about the window.
    1. widget: many widgets
1. constraintLayout
1. coordinateLayout
1. viewpager
1. viewpager2
