# Apps on Android

When you are on a different platform to code, the first thing is to know about the OS, including its APIs, User Control, File System, Application Running Ways.
Before, I thought Android is so complex. It is because it is different to Windows and Linux. Really?

## Linux & Windows

The first, let us talk about Linux and Windows.
We dont need to know how the system manages the RAM and oprates the Drivers.
We need to know what environment for application running that systems create.

**How does an app run?**
Applications are Binary Codes.
Executable Files(applicaitons) have a special file structure storing necessary infomation that running needs.
When we double click an app, all of the binary codes are loaded into RAM. Then, oprate system will execute and dispatch the running apps.

**User Control**
On windows and linux, we usually run apps on one account.

## Android

First of all, we need to know Android is based on Linux.
**How does an app run?**
Apps are strings. Like assmbly.
These are just text files, cannot be loaded into RAM directly. So how?
Java Virtual Machine(JVM) is an executable program which can be running on Linux OS.
Yes, Android is Linux + JVM.
JVM will read Android app file into its RAM and execute.

**User Control**
Android OS will give every Process an account.
And every process has its own jvm.
Thus, every process is in a safe and unique running sandbox(JVM).

## APIs: Talk to other process.

Android APIs support JAVA the ability to control the linux.
Well, you need to know, every service on android is running on jvm.
So, android gives us some tools to access to other processes.
1. Activity
2. Service
3. Broadcast
4. ContentProvider

### Activity

An activity is like a window. But all of the activities are independent.
An activity can call other activities. (Cross process)
If one process wants to call another process's one activity, it must get the authority.

### Service

A service is running without UI on the background.
If a service is using too much resource, the OS can kill it unless the service shows it cannot be killed(wanting to be running on foreground).

### Broadcast

Broadcast can broadcast a message to the whole OS, any app can receive it or not.
It can also create a Notification.

### ContentProvider(Program)

As the name shows, this program can manage some data which can be stored on Storage, Database, or Internet. Yes, Phone Book is a Content Provider.
Other programs can call it.

## Intent

### In Brief

Intent is like a postman, which holds your messages.
It is an asynchronous communication.
Activiy, Service, Broadcast use it to communicate.
But ContentProvider is not.
**Two types:**
Explicit intents: specify which application will satisfy the intent, by supplying either the **target app's package name** or a **fully-qualified component class name**.
Implicit intents: do not name a specific component, but instead declare a general action to perform. This request will be handled by OS, and OS will find one app fitting to your Intent from all app packages.

**Parameter ACTION:**

Well, you can also define your own ACTION to call other apps.

```java
static final String ACTION_TIMETRAVEL = "com.example.action.TIMETRAVEL";
```

**Parameter Uri:**
This locates the data which the action you want to act needs.

**Category:**
A string containing additional information about the kind of component that should handle the intent.
such as CATEGORY_APP_EMAIL, CATEGORY_APP_MAP
This is to make Intent more expilicit.

### Intent contains:

**Component Name:**

### To Start Activiy, Service, Broadcast, ContentProvider

**Activity:**
startActivity()
startActivityForResult()
**Service:**
startService()
bindService()
**Broadcast:**
sendBroadcast()
sendOrderedBroadcast()
sendStickyBroadcast() 
**ContentProvider:**
class ContentResolver query()

## AndroidManifest.xml

1. Define all components.
2. Request permission
3. API level
4. Request hardware and software: camera, bluetooth, 
5. define linking lib like google map.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest ... >
    <uses-sdk android:minSdkVersion="23" android:targetSdkVersion="26"/>
    <uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera2.any" android:required="true"/>
    <application 
        android:icon="@drawable/app_icon.png"  
        android:label="@string/app_name" >   
        
        <activity android:name="MainActivity">
            <!-- This activity is the main entry, should appear in app launcher -->
            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />
                <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
            </intent-filter>
        </activity>

        <activity android:name="ShareActivity">
            <!-- This activity handles "SEND" actions with text data -->
            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.SEND"/>
                <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT"/>
                <data android:mimeType="text/plain"/>
            </intent-filter>
            <!-- This activity also handles "SEND" and "SEND_MULTIPLE" with media data -->
            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.SEND"/>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.SEND_MULTIPLE"/>
                <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT"/>
                <data android:mimeType="application/vnd.google.panorama360+jpg"/>
                <data android:mimeType="image/*"/>
                <data android:mimeType="video/*"/>
            </intent-filter>
        </activity>
    </application>
</manifest>
```

You must define all components here.
Activity: <activity>
Service: <service>
Broadcast：<receiver>  or call registerReceiver()
ContentProvider：<provider>

### Intent-Filter

If you want expose your Activity for other apps to call, use Intent-Filter.
One activity can hold more than one filter.
**android:name**: a string, do you remeber Parameter ACTION, what we talked about before. It is that.
**actegory**: We have talked about this. This is to make intent more explicit.
**data**: always used to define the data type you want to receive.(MIME TYPE)
MIME TYPE see: https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types

## PendingIntent 

## Introduction

A PendingIntent object is a wrapper around an Intent object. The primary purpose of a PendingIntent is to grant permission to a foreign application to use the contained Intent as if it were executed from your app's own process.
**Major use cases for a pending intent include the following:**
[ul
Declaring an intent to be executed when the user performs an action with your Notification (the Android system's NotificationManager executes the Intent).
Declaring an intent to be executed when the user performs an action with your App Widget (the Home screen app executes the Intent).
Declaring an intent to be executed at a specified future time (the Android system's AlarmManager executes the Intent).
ul]

### The way to ues:

PendingIntent.getActivity() for an Intent that starts an Activity.
PendingIntent.getService() for an Intent that starts a Service.
PendingIntent.getBroadcast() for an Intent that starts a BroadcastReceiver.
