# Resource

## Strcutrue

01. animator/: XML files that define `property animations`.
02. anim/: XML files that define `tween animations`.
03. color/: XML files that define a state list of colors. 
04. drawable/: Bitmap files (.png, .9.png, .jpg, .gif)
05. mipmap/: Drawable files for **different launcher icon densities. 
06. layout/: XML files that define a user interface layout.
07. menu/: XML files that define app menus, such as an Options Menu, Context Menu, or Sub Menu. 
08. raw/: Arbitrary files to save in their raw form. To open these resources with a raw InputStream, call Resources.openRawResource() with the resource ID, which is R.raw.filename.
09. values/: XML files that contain simple values, such as strings, integers, and colors.
10. xml/: Arbitrary XML files that can be read at runtime by calling Resources.getXML().
11. font/: Font files with extensions such as .ttf, .otf, or .ttc, or XML files that include a <font-family> element.

## Alternative Resource

Well, Create a new folder named as {:<resources_name>-<qualifier>:}
Eg:

```c
res/
    drawable/
        icon.png
        background.png
    drawable-hdpi/
        icon.png
        background.png
```

qualifiers are many. You can get from [qualifiers]new(https://developer.android.google.cn/guide/topics/resources/providing-resources#PlatformResources)
We usually use these:
**Screen pixel density (dpi)	ldpi:**
[ol
mdpi
hdpi
xhdpi
xxhdpi
xxxhdpi
nodpi
tvdpi
anydpi
nnndpi
ol]

## Alias For res.

just create a xml file, and put it into all different qualifiers folders.

**Drawable:**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<resources>
    <drawable name="icon">@drawable/icon_ca</drawable>
</resources>
```

**Layout:**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<merge>
    <include layout="@layout/main_ltr"/>
</merge>
```

**Strings and other simple values:**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<resources>
    <string name="hello">Hello</string>
    <string name="hi">@string/hello</string>
</resources>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
```

**Color**

```xml
<resources>
    <color name="red">#f00</color>
    <color name="highlight">@color/red</color>
</resources>
```

## Class R, and @

All resource IDs are defined in your project's R class, which the aapt tool automatically generates.

@ is R

**In Code**

```java
R.string.hello
```

**In XML**

```xml
@string/hello
```

## Original Files

You can create a folder called 'Assets/' in the Src/
Use AssetManager to access to it.

## Localize your app

Just create values-en / values-xx
An app's Kotlin-based or Java-based code refers to just two strings, text_a and text_b. This app includes a localized resource file (res/values-en/strings.xml) that defines text_a and text_b in English. This app also includes a default resource file (res/values/strings.xml) that includes a definition for text_a, but not for text_b. Haha , you know what would happen.
